Renamed autoscaling section, added details for PodAutoscaler custom resource (#1877)
knative/docs: docs/serving/autoscaling.md

---

> title: "Autoscaling "

Reviewer: This content still seems almost completely task oriented and lacks conceptual information (ie the "when" and "why" to configure each thing - for example when to choose KPA vs HPA and why, what are the pros and cons, when is it necessary to implement your own (is there a threshold?), etc.). Which it fine because that aligns with the Nav work in #1052 (-> Need to add new "Overview about Scaling in Knative")

Perhaps for this topic we keep the title aligned with a task, ie "Configuring scaling" or "Configuring autoscaling"?
And then add the necessary/missing Overview conceptual content in a new topic (as proposed [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1L3EAeTX7RRdZhcQZeNmxwN4DCncuImCXA5A1_KQvwSk/edit#gid=413198505&range=45:45))?

weight: 10
type: "docs"

> ---

Reviewer: For any renamed or moved files, we need to add a redirect.

```suggestion
aliases:
  - /docs/serving/configuring-the-autoscaler/
---
```

> Since Knative v0.2, per revision autoscalers have been replaced by a single

Reviewer: All references to old versions should be removed. Going forward, we should only reference `v.latest -1` re: https://github.com/knative/docs/issues/1850

---
title: "Autoscaling "
weight: 10
type: "docs"
---

Since Knative v0.2, per revision autoscalers have been replaced by a single
shared autoscaler. This is, by default, the Knative Pod Autoscaler (KPA), which
provides fast, request-based autoscaling capabilities out of the box.
You can also configure Knative to use Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA), or use your own autoscaler, by implementing the Pod Autoscaler custom resource.

> # Implementing required Knative autoscaling mechanisms

Reviewer 2: This should be part of the `Implementing your own Pod Autoscaler` section.

> * You must use the [`autoscaling-base-reconciler`](https://github.com/knative/serving/blob/master/pkg/reconciler/autoscaling/reconciler.go) as implemented in Knative Serving.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* It's recommended to use the [`autoscaling-base-reconciler`](https://github.com/knative/serving/blob/master/pkg/reconciler/autoscaling/reconciler.go) as implemented in Knative Serving.
```

* Ensure that you are calling `ReconcileSKS` from the `autoscaling-base-reconciler`.

> * If you want to use concurrency metrics, ensure that you are using `ReconcileMetric` and `ReconcileMetricsService` to enable that system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If you want to use metrics collected by Knative like `concurrency`, ensure that you are using `ReconcileMetric` and `ReconcileMetricsService` to enable that system.
```

`minScale` will still be provided. Keep in mind that non-routeable revisions may
be garbage collected, which enables Knative to reclaim the resources.

#### Default behavior

If the `minScale` annotation is not set, pods will scale to zero (or to 1 if
`enable-scale-to-zero` is `false` per the ConfigMap mentioned above).

If the `maxScale` annotation is not set, there will be no upper limit for the
number of pods created.

> ### Configuring CPU-based autoscaling

Reviewer 2: Note for future work: This should be another top level section that says:

```
# Configuring Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA)
```

This section should then talk about how Knative Serving can also scale using the HPA, which enables CPU based metrics (as shown here) or also use concurrency metrics which we use for the KPA as well. Let's split that off though.

Author: If you want to create an issue for this maybe I'd be happy to work on it next? :smiley_cat:

Author: Updated the heading for now - lmk if you want to follow up the 'splitting off' part in another issue

spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      autoscaling.knative.dev/metric: cpu
      autoscaling.knative.dev/class: hpa.autoscaling.knative.dev
```

# Implementing your own Pod Autoscaler

> The Pod Autoscaler custom resource allows you to implement your own autoscaler without changing anything else about the Knative Serving system.

Reviewer: "The Pod Autoscaler custom resource" sounds like its an preexisting object? 

Or is this task actually: "Create a custom resource to implement your own Pod Autoscaler"?

Reviewer 2: Nope, this is not supposed to be "Create a custom resource". The resource is indeed pre-existing. We only create a different reconciler for it.

> The Pod Autoscaler custom resource allows you to implement your own reconciler and autoscaling system, without changing anything else about the Knative Serving system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Pod Autoscaler custom resource allows you to implement your own autoscaler, without changing anything else about the Knative Serving system.
```

> You can implement your own Pod Autoscaler if the requirements of your workload cannot be covered by the KPA or HPA, for example if you want to use a more specialized autoscaling algorithm or if you need to use a specialized set of metrics not supported by Knative out of the box.

Reviewer: What are the other "requirements" for workloads that cannot be covered by the KPA or HPA? Or, are there really just the two scenarios that this feature is targeting?

Author: @markusthoemmes care to provide any insight here? I think it's just the two scenarios listed?

@RichieEscarez I might be missing something but I don't see anything wrong with how this is stated?

Reviewer 2: can't think of more off the top of my head. Plus it's qualified as "for example" so that should leave some leeway?

> You can implement your own Pod Autoscaler if the requirements of your workload cannot be covered by the KPA or HPA, for example if you want to use a more specialized autoscaling algorithm or if you need to use a specialized set of metrics not support by Knative out of the box.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can implement your own Pod Autoscaler if the requirements of your workload cannot be covered by the KPA or HPA, for example if you want to use a more specialized autoscaling algorithm or if you need to use a specialized set of metrics not supported by Knative out of the box.
```

Author: Oops, my bad for copy/pasting :laughing:

> To implement your own Pod Autoscaler, you can create a reconciler that operates on your own class of Knative Pod Autoscaler by copying a [Kubernetes sample controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/sample-controller) and modifying its configuration to suit your desired use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To implement your own Pod Autoscaler, you can create a reconciler that operates on your own class of Pod Autoscaler by copying a [Knative sample controller](https://github.com/knative/sample-controller) and modifying its configuration to suit your desired use case.
```

Sorry I only caught the wrong link now.

Author: np, thanks!

spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      autoscaling.knative.dev/metric: cpu
      autoscaling.knative.dev/class: hpa.autoscaling.knative.dev
```

> # Configuring the PodAutoscaler custom resource

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Configuring your own Pod Autoscaler
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Add a few sentences on **why** one might want to do that. Content might be:

- You want an autoscaler that better fits your workloads
- You want to use the metrics Knative provides with a different algorithm, that better suits your workloads
- You want to use entirely different metrics

You can create a reconciler that operates on your own class of Knative PodAutoscaler by copying a [Kubernetes sample controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/sample-controller) and modifying its configuration to suit your desired use case.

> For example, if your service yaml includes a class annotation of:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if your service's template YAML includes a class annotation like
```

```
autoscaling.knative.dev/class: sample
```

> You would target that class annotation in your controller. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your reconciler would only want to reconcile PodAutoscaler resources with that target. The informer setup if your controller could look like this:
```

```golang
paInformer.Informer().AddEventHandler(cache.FilteringResourceEventHandler{
	FilterFunc: reconciler.AnnotationFilterFunc(autoscaling.ClassAnnotationKey, "sample", false),
	Handler:    controller.HandleAll(impl.Enqueue),
})

```
    if pa.Annotations["autoscaling.knative.dev/class"] == "sample" {
      // Do this
    }

> ```

Reviewer 2: This becomes obsolete with the comment above.

> 

Reviewer 2: Let's add a few sentences here that one must implement the different mechanisms of the autoscaler to successfully make it work in Knative. Most importantly:

1. It'd make sense to use the autoscaling-base-reconciler as implemented in Knative Serving (link to https://github.com/knative/serving/blob/master/pkg/reconciler/autoscaling/reconciler.go).
2. Make sure to call `ReconcileSKS` from that reconciler.
3. If you want to use the metrics that Knative collects (concurrency metrics), make sure to use `ReconcileMetric` and `ReconcileMetricsService` to enable that system.

A complete example can be found in the HPA reconciler which is essentially an implementation of this: https://github.com/knative/serving/blob/master/pkg/reconciler/autoscaling/hpa/hpa.go

---

Let's link to these resources for now and just mention them. We have on our roadmap to provide an entire example implementation of this, with comments and all. We can revisit these docs once we've done that.

Author: Added new section to beginning of doc, lmk what you think

Reviewer 2: I don't think it fares well above all the config. This really only applies to implementing an own Autoscaler.

spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      autoscaling.knative.dev/metric: cpu
      autoscaling.knative.dev/class: hpa.autoscaling.knative.dev
```

> # Configuring your own Pod Autoscaler

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Implementing your own Pod Autoscaler
```

The Pod Autoscaler custom resource allows you to implement your own reconciler and autoscaling system, without changing anything else about the Knative Serving system.

You can configure your own Pod Autoscaler to address the following use cases:
* Implementing autoscaling using different metrics than those provided by default by Knative
* Using the Knative metrics with a different algorithm than the default

> * Creating an autoscaler that better fits your individual workload requirements

Reviewer 2: We can fold these into something more explicit I think:

> You can implement your own Pod Autoscaler if the requirements of your workload cannot be covered by the KPA or HPA, for example if you want to use a more specialized autoscaling algorithm or if you need to use a specialized set of metrics not support by Knative out of the box.

> To configure your own Pod Autoscaler, you can create a reconciler that operates on your own class of Knative Pod Autoscaler by copying a [Kubernetes sample controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/sample-controller) and modifying its configuration to suit your desired use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To implement your own Pod Autoscaler, you can create a reconciler that operates on your own class of Knative Pod Autoscaler by copying a [Kubernetes sample controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/sample-controller) and modifying its implementation to suit your desired use case.
```

For example, if your service's template YAML includes a class annotation like:
```
autoscaling.knative.dev/class: sample
```
Your reconciler would only want to reconcile PodAutoscaler resources with that target.

The informer setup of your controller might look like this:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```golang
```
